Let's talk about the CLI and
CLIs are incredibly important
because it allows us to leverage
the collective intelligence
of a much broader,
more available smarter community.
And so every modern framework
has a CLI from view to react,
to angular, to ember etc and
a lot of times individuals
will use the CLI to
generate a basic project.
Possibly even a single in the terms of
the data model or the the progression
that we talked about, like a cell,
like I need to generate a component.
Well, that's very convenient to do that.
But what I want to illustrate
here is the ability to
put this together in a way
that you can generate
the entire structure of a project
in a mirror matter of minutes.
And so if we hop into this
particular stackblitz here,
we are going to go on a journey.
And this is potentially a little
bit disjointed because there's
a little bit of angular and
there's a little bit of react here.
But I would like to
demonstrate what is in so
let me just pull this
out into a new window.
So we can see it in all its glory is
most people when they work with the CLI,
typically, they go about this far,
or certainly doing mbmi.
That's nothing new.
But maybe we wanna generate a component.
So I've seen a lot of developers,
just do it.
A little tiny piece like this.
And when in fact,
you stack this all together very quickly,
you can generate a single command
that you can even download and
run this as a shell command.
And so right now, in our domain model,
we have users courses,
lessons and assignments.
But let's go ahead and
let's add in another domain model
to just make this interesting.
And so as we go through this,
you're going to
notice that I'm just
defining some schemas.
So let's go with feedback schema.
And we'll go with feedback.
Now this is interesting because
what is coral, the feedback.
Well, to the best of my knowledge,
it's feedback.
So we're gonna go with feedback.
We'll see what happens we'll generate it,
so
if it just looks super
kooky then guess what,
it's immutable we throw it away and
we go from there so.
Now, I have a config.
And so I recommend that post workshop
that you take this stackblitz and
you kind of walk through
these properties and
what they are doing but
really all I'm doing is creating
a basic object that contains
the properties that I want.
So, a couple of things we're pointing out,
we have libs,
which in nx is a standalone library.
So we're gonna have a data lib,
a state lib, a material lib, a login lib.
And so this allows us to create kind of
stand alone libraries that we can reuse.
And warm, portly we have these
entities here and a couple prefixes.
So everything in here, we have
essentially covered a variation of it.
And then if you remember in the primer,
we iterated
over a collection of commands
to generate something.
And as part of that,
we used the array.reduce to consolidate
the output of that particular command
into a single thing into a single string.
And so I think of this as a list
of steps that we're going to take.
So in this case.
We're going to generate workspace,
packages, dependencies, libs, slice.
In this case react is a slice,
our component layer,
a container component called home.
We'll go ahead and install jsonserver and
then we're going to start.
The application again function and
parameters.
And then up at the top.
We're going to look at just
a couple of these a couple
of these methods and
they should be very familiar.
So we'll go with state, or
rather slice, same thing.
We're just reducing over the entities.
And we're taking in
generating a command based
on each of the entities and
attaching it to code.
So what this looks like
when it's generated is this
particular block right here.
So again basic string manipulation string
interpolation and
we're using array.reduce.
And for basic one line stuff that we have,
like let's say,
container component, nx gc,
entity model plural.
And then we have a suffix.
So I'm going to leave the other
example in straight angular and
hope that they fix that ESLn thing.
But what's really interesting
is most of these commands I
did not have to change at all
from one from react to angular.
The reason being is that the command for
generating a component is
almost identical except for
the suffix and so
this was a little bit different but
I was able to capture that inside of
the suffix parameter and pass that in.
So here where we have an object
that has the suffixes,
you'll notice export falls,
routing is true, and style is scss.
And so this is a combination
of everything we've talked
up to this point and
if you remember in the slides.
Then I said the initial
project configuration or
the wiring is a little bit tedious.
The reason being is you have
to do it at least once and so
this is in my mind I think
this is like this is a true
custom mold that we have just made.
So with that I'm going to roll the dice
one more time and we're going to run this.
So I'm just gonna paste this is and I'm
going to just let this do its thing, and
while this is going,
that once it successfully installs,
then we will sing, we will dance,
we will be merry, and
we'll move on to more
sophisticated generators.
If not, I'll probably tip off the chair,
and die of a heart attack but
the ability to add in
additional entities and
then generate the entire slice and
stack for
that particular entity is very powerful.
So if I wanted to generate
not only horizontally but
vertically, a slice for
a particular entity,
I simply need to add it into my generator.
And I'm able to pick and choose the bits
and pieces that I want and spin it up.
So this is by far in my opinion.
The most high touch part
of building a generator.
With that said, what this allows you
to do is if you have an agreement
with your stakeholders on
what the domain models are,
then you can plug this in within minutes.
You have the entire structure for
your application.
What I do with this is typically, I will
generate the structure for my application.
And at the same time I will generate the
actual templates that I want to use for
my application separately and
then once the project's generated,
I'll download my generated
templates that are specific to this
particular domain organization, etc.
And then I'll just overwrite them
onto the generated application.
So it's very easy when it's like
I want to move this thing over.
And go find the equivalent file and
just overwrite it.
So I have a pretty good
feeling about this.
So let me click on localhost 4200.
And let me just drag this over.
And here we go.
So I was able to generate
this application.
But let's go ahead and
hop into the code just so
we can see what we were left with.
So if we look at this real quick,
I have an app which has.
The app but it has assignments,
courses, feedback, lessons, users.
And I've generated
essentially placeholders for
all of these components.
And not only that, the if I go to this is
why I think nx is really good if I go into
course state into source into libs.
Here I now have a redux slice for
every single entity, that I defined.
Now this may not be exactly
what I wanna use but
at least I have a placeholder or
something to start with and so
this alone by simply creating a small bit
of tooling to generate a CLI command.
A really a composite CLI
command allows me to do what
historically would have
taken me all afternoon.
Pre CLI I mean,
it would take me a day pre CLI but
post CLI that I've seen a number of
developers do this one command at
a time when I have been on engagements
where I'm working with a client and
we are doing some kind of roadmapping or
discovery.
And my entire goal in that engagement or
that particular activity is to
understand the domain model.
And once I understand the domain model,
then I can come over to
a tool like this and
I can generate an entire project.
Is fast is it takes me to
generate these basic schemas for
the models that I've discovered
through the conversation
with the client and
this is very powerful because now
you have something that
immediately you can show and
you can show your stakeholders within
you can start to iterate on and
get feedback, Alice immediately.
The other thing that I want to
point out here before we move on is
that these are the same commands
that I would use if I were
building a production
enterprise grade application.
There's nothing different between
this generated project for
a, let's say a proof of concept or
a production grade application.
The approach,
the techniques are exactly the same,
the artifacts are exactly the same.
The difference is that I have or
we are looking at how to
accelerate that timeline by
not changing the scope but
by changing the way that we think
about application development.
Unfortunately, I don't yet
know how to make myself immune to
JavaScript package conflicts and
inconsistencies I heard somebody
say they were very smart
that probably what you should
do is pin your versions in
your package.JSON and
I think that Is a pretty good idea.
So the question is how would I adapt this
approach to changes within the domain
model or more importantly my
understanding of the domain model.
So it's my understanding changes.
How do I adapt this approach?
Well, the beauty of this
approach is that it is
significantly more adaptable
that my experience is
that I realized very quickly
that I have an incomplete or
a superficial understanding of the domain.
When I put something in front of a domain
expert and I start to get feedback.
And so for example, I built a travel
application for a very large airline.
And it was a constant cycle of
I would build something I would
show it to the stakeholder and
they'd be like,
that's kind of right but
that's not how it works all the time.
And then they would then go on to explain
the 10,000 rules that
govern airline travel.
And so by using this approach,
this one allows me to get or
to uncover my superficial
understanding of the domain
much quicker which is what
you want is that when you're
programming the question is
how do you know anything.
And that's a really serious question is
that how do you know that you are doing
the right thing?
Well, this is with feedback loops.
This is why we write tests.
This is why we do automated testing.
This is why we do user testing.
And in this case,
what I do is that I isolate
the pieces that are going to change and
I generate the other pieces.
And so if I realize that my
domain was not quite right, well,
in this case, it's fairly trivial
that I would simply just generate.
Maybe I don't have to generate
the entire project but
I would generate an entire slice of
that project and then just replace it.
And so I really want to encourage
us to start thinking about
our projects like immutable
infrastructure is the pieces that
we are going to change a lot where there
is variance you want to segment that out.
And isolate that abstract that out but
the pieces that are conventional
that are not going to change,
you want to create a system in
an environment that you can throw
those away and replace it with
an updated version very quickly.
And again, this is the entire concept
behind cloud based architecture and
immutable infrastructure.
Is that I don't need
this container anymore.
You tear down, you put something else up.
And I am proposing that
we can do this in code.